

What do we want to do now?
- Functionally test the other one, CP2T user repository DB

#### CP2T issue recap
To recap the issue real quick:
- user repository is a db which has client specific sql objects, specific tables, specific db users.
- we can create users in this database via database developer by logging into registered cw instance
- this creates a login and a user in localhost and the user repository database 
- when we backup this database and restore it to another server (e.g. on a VM!!) the user which is per db is passed on through the .bak but the login which is per server is not.


Tasks
1) reproduce the error [DONE]
	1) Take a backup [DONE]
	2) Restore backup onto other server [DONE]
	3) Check if the per server principals are missing [DONE]
		1) Open SSMS, connect to the test server [DONE]
		2) Query db principals in user repo, expect `mukund` user [DONE]
		3) Query server principals, expect `mukund` to not be there [DONE]
2) test the fix [IN PROGRESS]
	1) Open DBBR [DONE]
	2) Run DBBR restore (with changes) on the backup that has the `mukund` user [DONE]
	3) Confirm that server principal exists [IN PROGRESS]
		1) Server principal does not exist -> why not? Read code, confirm that code contains method to create server principals [DONE]
		2) Check that we are executing the right code [IN PROGRESS]
			1) Make changes [DONE]
			2) Rebuild [DONE]
			3) Copy all binaries over to VM [DONE]
			4) Redo step 2 (run DBBR) [DONE]
			5) Confirm print statements show our code is being executed [DONE]
				1) Print statements are not showing our code executing- they are crashing when we call the API to reassign schema owners in the database code. This means the operation is crashing before any of our code actually runs. Run the master branch to confirm the operation works by default (maybe it doesn't) [DONE]
				2) We know the master code works properly. First add a print statement to the remapping CargoWise.Data method to confirm it is being run (remember, we are fixing the .bak for this test) [IN PROGRESS]
					1) Make change [DONE]
					2) Rebuild [DONE]
					3) Copy Dlls [DONE]
					4) Run DBBR [DONE]
				3) Read the code that we have added to see why our changes are breaking- error seems to be fixed in master. pull and merge [DONE]
				4) Retest by rebuilding, copying and rerunning DBBR [DONE]
				5) Confirm there are no errors [DONE]
				6) Confirm that both db principal and server principal exist [DONE]
3) We have rewritten a large part of the PR to forget about schema owners and instead just do the simple task of recreating custom users. First thing to do is confirm that the mapping method from cargowise data: `EnsureDbLoginsCorrectlyMappedToAllDatabases` does NOT create users, and if it does, that it does NOT map the enterprise users to logins (in our case, the case of database developers). [DONE]
4) We discovered that the above method is only concerned with specifically 5 logins (see `*`), and not enterprise db logins (that come from database developers). Fix the PR to not mention schema owners, only detail with recreating missing logins and mapping them to the users come from database developers. [IN PROGRESS]
	1) Update tests [TODO]
	2) Run tests [TODO]
	3) Confirm tests pass [TODO]
5) Clean up PR [TODO]
6) Submit for another shelf [TODO]

> MUKUND GET THESE DONE TODAY!

`*`
```csharp
public DatabaseLogin[] Logins => logins ?? (logins = new DatabaseLogin[] {
	new RestrictedReaderDatabaseLogin(this),
	new RestrictedWriterDatabaseLogin(this),
	new UnrestrictedWriterDatabaseLogin(this),
	new ReaderDatabaseLogin(this),
	new CargoWiseWriterLogin(this)
});
```

---

Description I put into task for records of today:

```
M22 21-Apr-26 17:50 GMT+10:00:

  

diangose some errors:

- why can't we print at all in the vicinity of the remapping wrapper? because this is static, by printing using fire we must make it non static which causes reflection to fail

- why doesn't code actually work? because we were only fixing the cases where schemas were misaligned, it turns out we wanted to consider all cases, regardless of schena

- did a lengthy investigation into how the remapping core function works, that the wrapper invokes- what logins and users does it actually remap

- fixed errors related to instantiating class and invoking methods using reflection by pulling and merging from master

  

1) remove any reference to schema or schema owners, we are strictly concerned with fixing orphans

2) update tests and rerun

3) functional test by rebuilding, copying over relevant DLLs onto VM and then running DBBR tool and expecting enterprise user to be remade and remapped

4) can query odyssey for sys.server_principals and sys.database_principals to confirm the change has worked.
```

---

TODO:
1) 
2) PR for moving between OUs code review and self functional test [IN PROGRESS]
	1) [[WI00782542 - CCC - Supports Multiple CW1 OUs]]
	2) https://github.com/WiseTechGlobal/CargoWiseCloud.Console/pull/209/changes



---

1) fix the fucking db schema in console- pull, merge, run frontend tests [IN PROGRESS]
	1) go over changes in PR
	2) submit for shelf test and review
2) add time recording for last 8 hours [DONE]
3) clean up OU WI for review, functional test it
