ZNV 10-Apr-25 11:06 GMT+10:00:

James has some great insights here on how we can improve our schema and naming conventions.

Please read through, document, and make the necessary changes.

[James Woods: Database Schema Comments](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/message/19:J_86s9F8V8fw-qtEJ6XkiTRBLQDTwAFtfOQmy4wjKZk1@thread.tacv2/1744240476545?tenantId=8b493985-e1b4-4b95-ade6-98acafdbdb01&groupId=ced3190c-f7ff-408f-a149-760a9449c556&parentMessageId=1744240476545&teamName=CargoWise%20Cloud&channelName=CargoWise%20Cloud%20Console&createdTime=1744240476545&ngc=true&allowXTenantAccess=true)

posted in CargoWise Cloud / CargoWise Cloud Console on Thursday, 10 April, 2025 9:14 am

The tasks with **no strikethough** are completed in this WI. The others should have already been completed in Part 1: [WI00895283 - CCC - Review & Update Database Schema Part 1](https://svc-ediprod.wtg.zone/Services/link/ShowEditForm/WorkItem/a7d4170c-1b29-4ecd-bd7e-16c58ad8cade?lang=en-gb).


- ~~Get rid of DeleteCascade in the CloudDbContext.cs file.~~
- ~~All integer primary keys must start at 1, not 0. This seems to be some autogenerated EF setting, we can adjust it in the CloudDbContext.cs file or add [DatabaseGenerated(DatabaseGeneratedOption.Identity)] to the Id in Entity.cs.~~
- ~~Tables like IisServer should be named IISServer as acronyms should be in upper case (as acronyms always should be). The same goes for columns like DnsServer, they should be DNSServer.~~
- ~~Name fields should have a unique constraint attached to them as a name should be able to function as a candidate key. Zeynep's Note: Will add this where possible (e.g., customer system instance name or customer name) but there are cases where entities can have the same name but diferent licence type or data centre so this cannot be applied indiscriminately.~~


- **LicenceType and DataCenter are foreign keys** to other tables, not just unconstrained integers (e.g., tables such as DatabaseServer and TemplatePaths). After this change, we can remove these structures from the frontend and instead have an endpoint call that pulls the licence type/data centre details for the create and search dropdowns.
    - Customer system should have its DataCenter and LicenceType columns changed to DataCenterId and LicenceTypeId.
    - DataCenter should have these columns: Id, Created, Modified, Name, Obsolete, RegionId.
    - LicenceType: Id, Created, Modified, Name, DomainId.
    - Region: Id, Created, Modified, Name.
    - Domain: Id, Created, Modified, Name.
- ~~Country in CustomerSystem should be a foreign key, there should be a Country table with the primary key being the two-character country id and a unique name field with the full country name. After this change, we can remove the Country structure from the frontend and instead have an endpoint call that pulls the country details for the create system dropdowns.~~


Here is a list of the changes that need to happen (at least):
- we need to create new models for the new types `LicenseType` and `DataCenter` and replace these columns in existing tables such as `CustomerSystem` and `ActivationDatabaseBackupPath`. To support these we need additional tables for `Region` and `Domain`.
	- `DataCenter` should have these columns: Id (uuid), Created, Modified, Name, Obsolete, RegionId (foreign key to region)
	-  LicenceType: Id, Created, Modified, Name, DomainId.
    - Region: Id, Created, Modified, Name.
    - Domain: Id, Created, Modified, Name.
    - To do this we may need to update the models inside folder "ConsoleDatabase\Entities" AND/OR update the schema inside CloudConsoleDbContext.cs.
    - Add some sample data for each of these
- We need migrations for these changes "dotnet ef migrations add {YourMigrationName} --context CloudConsoleAuditingDbContext"
- We need tests for the migrations and for the model changes
- After this change, we can remove these structures from the frontend and instead have an endpoint call that pulls the licence type/data centre details for the create and search dropdowns.
- Please verify all these steps are possible and suitable for a schema refactor, and no additional steps are needed in this codebase

Prompted copilot with this and it gave its answer as 3 questions
1) datacentrecode/licensetypecode is the cleanest, but it is a large change. should these be one PR or kept separate?
2) Licenstype enum has complex logic (haproxy hostnames, gmsa logins, web version config) this logic should stay on the renamed enum. 
3) Guid vs int ID

Answers:
1) Lets do these changes one at a time- first make just the datacentre and regionId change, do not worry about the licensetype and domainId. Also i prefer to keep the model name the same (DanaCentre without code).
2) That logic is mapping from string to enum. We still need this mapping, but in the form of a db query now fetching the options from the db rather than a static lookup.
3) Copy existing convention, use int Id like country.

Combined:

we need to create new models for the new types `LicenseType` and `DataCenter` and replace these columns in existing tables such as `CustomerSystem` and `ActivationDatabaseBackupPath`. To support these we need additional tables for `Region` and `Domain`.
	- `DataCenter` should have these columns: Id (int), Created, Modified, Name, Obsolete, RegionId (foreign key to region)
	-  LicenceType: Id, Created, Modified, Name, DomainId.
    - Region: Id, Created, Modified, Name.
    - Domain: Id, Created, Modified, Name.
    - To do this we may need to update the models inside folder "ConsoleDatabase\Entities" AND/OR update the schema inside CloudConsoleDbContext.cs.
    - Add some sample data for each of these
- Then every reference to DataCenter and LicenceType should be updated from an enum to this custom datatype, across the solution.
- We need migrations for these changes "dotnet ef migrations add {YourMigrationName} --context CloudConsoleAuditingDbContext". I want to add this manually.
- We need tests for the migrations and for the model changes (consistent with what already exists).
- After this change, we can remove these structures from the frontend and instead have an endpoint call that pulls the licence type/data centre details for the create and search dropdowns.
- since this PR change is huge, first just do the LicenseType and Domain models- leave DataCenter and Region
- Previous logic for the enum e.g. extension methods should be updated to pull data from the db rather than use static maps
- Please verify all these steps are possible and suitable for a schema refactor, and no additional steps are needed in this codebase. ask any questions.
- 